---
layout: post
title: Live 9 release event
category: blog
tag: music
---

I have used [Ableton Live](https://www.ableton.com/en/live/new-in-9/) for a while to produce music and I really like it. The flow for building song structures, adding effects, and playing with controllers is very smooth and natural. Although the instruments provided by Live are a little lacking in functionality and depth, I love to use Live to play different VSTs or Reason (as an external instrument). Nothing else compares to Live for controlling audio or midi streams and adding effects. Here is a little intro video to live if you don't know anything about it.

{% assign video_id="WsJwxJj0tXo" %}
{% include youtube.html %}

I went to the preview event of Live 9 and Push (a controller built for Live 9) at Tekserve in NYC on March 5th. They were really trying to promote the Push controller as an instrument, saying you don't even need to look at the computer to make entire songs. They had a few good performers who demonstrated the functionality of the device and I'd say I agree for the most part. I still think final editing and mastering will be easier to do in Live on your laptop, but being able to create ideas and just flow from one thing to the next is an invaluable tool offered by the device. I wonder if it will be possible to configure different midi hardware to take advantage of some of the new features in Live 9 which make the Push so appealing.

{% assign video_id="5obV0TAADhE" %}
{% include youtube.html %}

The push adds many features although two of them caught my eye and seem like they would be fun to play with. One is the ability to add notes to a clip of different lengths easily using the top half of the 64x64 grid in the same way you would program a drum machine. The second feature is the ability to easily browse to different key signatures to play notes. Both of these additions are nothing new as people have written programs for the [monome](http://monome.org) which do the same thing. The main difference is the level of integration with Live is much better.