---
layout: post
title: Improv Lesson 4
category: blog
---

I had my fourth improv lesson today. This one was all about character work. We used movement to determine how a character would act, and what they would do in different situations. We started by walking around the room, leading with different parts of the body. While walking we would think about what kind of person would lead with this part of their body, how would this person act. I found it very helpful to create a character through motion to give depth to their personality.

The first scene I was in where I used motion, I was walking around and kind of skipping like a child. I was dancing around and I pictured myself as a 5 year old without a care in the world. When the scene started, I was immediately labeled as "Dad" so my idea that I was 5 years old no longer worked. I kept the skipping and dancing, but I was so stuck on trying to explain why I was 5 (which was impossible to do since I was a father) I wasn't able to explain why I was dancing and skipping. I think it comes back to being prepared, but not being rigid in your ideas. I was prepared since I had an idea for how the character should behave, but I was rigid since I wasn't able to adapt to the fact that I was a dad. I was trying to force the idea that I was 5, rather than figuring out why this dad was so carefree and dancing around. It could have been as simple as saying "I love this new boy band you just introduced me to! I can't stop dancing."

We also did a few scenes where we worked on status. We played out a short scene where one person was high status and one person was low status. Then we replayed the exact same scene (It worked best when the dialog was the same) but the status roles were switched. I found it very entertaining the second time through when the statuses were switched (especially if the dialog was word for word). Status gave a lot of depth to the characters and the story.

We also worked on a character matching exercise. One person stood in the middle of the stage and one by one other people would start a scene with them. The job of the person in the middle was to match the character as exactly as possible. I think I had one of my best scenes during a matching scene. I think it was the best because I gave absurd sounding but extremely detailed (and actually real) labels to the situation and the relationship between the characters. The suggestion was bungee jumping. The only thing I could think of was Interlaken Switzerland (the extreme sports capital of the world). I knew no one would understand how bungee jumping when to a city in Switzerland unless I labeled it really well so I started with "Honey, the real reason I took you on this trip to Interlaken, the extreme sports capital of the world, was to propose to you." Then I continued to say "We are soul mates, we are a perfect match on so many levels including the fact that we love to do extreme sports together." My teacher suggested to my partner that he match with my character by being totally in love with me and saying that he was actually about to propose to me. We then went on to say in unison that we had picked the same wedding chapel and date and time. It was pretty hilarious.

I definitely feel like I can adapt to different situations better. I also think I am better at labeling, but there is still room for improvement. I need to practice not getting stuck up on some idea I have and just go with the flow of the scene.